---
layout: post
title: Amazon Kinesis
subtitle: Features & Flavours of Kinesis
categories: Site
tags: [Data-Stream, Data-Firehose, Kinesis-Data-Analytics ]
---

**What is Kinesis?**
Kinesis is an Amazon service in Big Data that allows you to ingest, process, and analyze real-time streaming data, you can think of it as a huge data highway connected to your AWS account.
You can use Amazon Kinesis to securely stream video from camera-equipped devices to AWS. You can then use these video streams for video playback, security monitoring, face detection, machine learning, and other analytics.

I will talk about 2 types of Kinesis: <br/>

1. **Data Streams:** 
    - Real-time streaming for integrating data
    - Speed level is Real-time
    - You are responsible for creating the consumer & scaling stream.

2. **Data Firehose:**
    - Data transfer tool used to get information to S3, Redshift, ElasticSearch or Splunk
    - Speed level is Near Real-time(delivers within 60seconds) 
    - You don't have to do much, it's plug-and-play with AWS architecture. 


## Kinesis Data Analytics
This tool can be used with Data Firehose to get and analyze data. It's very easy to tie Data Analytics into your Kinesis pipeline. It's Directly supported by Data Firehose Data Analytics. It is also a fully managed, real-time serverless service, it will automatically handle scaling and provisioning of needed resources.
With this service, you only pay for what you use, the amount of resources you consume as your data passes through.
